README.md, before:

# Scientific Computing Project 1: Ants

This repository holds the code for the first project in ENGR3560: Scientific Computing. The goal is to replicate the cellular automata model used to simulate the formation of trails of foraging ants, as detailed in the paper 'Modelling the Formation of Trail Networks by Foraging Ants' (Watmough, Edelstein-Keshet), 1995. The specific deliverables are recreations of Figure 3 (a, b, c) from the paper.

## Requirements

The `requirements.txt` file contains the required package imports:
- matplotlib~=3.7.2
- numpy~=1.24.3
- pytest~=7.4.0

## How to Use
1. Clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/olincollege/scicomp-p1-alex_ants.git
cd scicomp-p1-alex_ants/
```

2. Install dependencies:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Run the simulation:
```
python main.py
```

## File Structure
ants.py - Contains Ant class and all helper functions, including explorer/follower decision making.

grid.py - Contains Grid class.

simulation_setup.py - Contains functions relevant to each simulation step.

ants_testing.py - Tests relevant functions from ants.py.

main.py - Main python file from which to run the code.


## Sources
James Watmough, Leah Edelstein-Keshet,
Modelling the Formation of Trail Networks by Foraging Ants,
Journal of Theoretical Biology,
Volume 176, Issue 3,
1995,
Pages 357-371,
ISSN 0022-5193,
https://doi.org/10.1006/jtbi.1995.0205.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022519385702056)
Abstract: This paper studies the role of chemical communication in the formation of trail networks by foraging ants. A cellular automaton model for the motion of the ants is formulated, which assumes that individuals interact according to a simple behavioural algorithm. The ants communicate by depositing trail markers composed of volatile chemicals that serve as attractants for other ants. The ants interact with the network both by following the trails and by extending and reinforcing the trails they follow. By varying the parameters describing these interactions we determine how variations in the behaviour of the individual ants lead to changes in the patterns of trail networks formed by the population. The results indicate that the ability of the group to form trails is inversely related with individual fidelity to trails.


## Other
### How to Use



Click on the "Use this template" button in the top right corner to create a new
repository based on this template. If this is for a class project, we ask that
you keep it in the `olincollege` GitHub organization, and that you refrain from
keeping the repository private. This will ensure that relevant people can access
your repository for assessment, etc.



### Requirements

The `requirements.txt` file is blank and should be filled out with any project
dependencies. There is a Python package called `pipreqs` that autogenerates the
contents of the `requirements.txt` file based on the `import` statements in your
`.py` files. To get this, run

```
pip install pipreqs
```

Then, in the root of your project repository, run:

```
pipreqs --mode compat
```

If you already have a `requirements.txt`, the above command will ask you to
rerun the command with the `--force` flag to overwrite it.

Commit message:

Removing template text, adding reminder for myself

README.md, after:

# Scientific Computing Project 1: Ants

This repository holds the code for the first project in ENGR3560: Scientific Computing. The goal is to replicate the cellular automata model used to simulate the formation of trails of foraging ants, as detailed in the paper 'Modelling the Formation of Trail Networks by Foraging Ants' (Watmough, Edelstein-Keshet), 1995. The specific deliverables are recreations of Figure 3 (a, b, c) from the paper.

## Requirements

The `requirements.txt` file contains the required package imports:
- matplotlib~=3.7.2
- numpy~=1.24.3
- pytest~=7.4.0

## How to Use
1. Clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/olincollege/scicomp-p1-alex_ants.git
cd scicomp-p1-alex_ants/
```

2. Install dependencies:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Run the simulation:
```
python main.py
```

## File Structure
ants.py - Contains Ant class and all helper functions, including explorer/follower decision making.

grid.py - Contains Grid class.

simulation_setup.py - Contains functions relevant to each simulation step.

ants_testing.py - Tests relevant functions from ants.py.

main.py - Main python file from which to run the code.


## Sources
James Watmough, Leah Edelstein-Keshet,
Modelling the Formation of Trail Networks by Foraging Ants,
Journal of Theoretical Biology,
Volume 176, Issue 3,
1995,
Pages 357-371,
ISSN 0022-5193,
https://doi.org/10.1006/jtbi.1995.0205.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022519385702056)
Abstract: This paper studies the role of chemical communication in the formation of trail networks by foraging ants. A cellular automaton model for the motion of the ants is formulated, which assumes that individuals interact according to a simple behavioural algorithm. The ants communicate by depositing trail markers composed of volatile chemicals that serve as attractants for other ants. The ants interact with the network both by following the trails and by extending and reinforcing the trails they follow. By varying the parameters describing these interactions we determine how variations in the behaviour of the individual ants lead to changes in the patterns of trail networks formed by the population. The results indicate that the ability of the group to form trails is inversely related with individual fidelity to trails.


## Other
### Reminder for Alex!!!
Run vvv before submitting!! And make sure to update the requirements list above ^^^
```
pipreqs --mode compat --force
```
